Those of you who have not come across me in the past,
my name is Pete Nest,
and I'm going to be your host once again today.
So this is the third and final session
of our first RStudio Cloud Live series.
Now, in terms of housekeeping, unlike prior events,
we're actually going to start with a live cloud demo,
then to follow, much like in the past,
we're going to have a live Q&A.
Now, there's no need to wait till the demo's over.
Feel free to ask any questions along the way
in the YouTube live chat.
And at this point,
I'd actually like to introduce my colleague,
Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel,
who is a professional educator and a data scientist
here at RStudio, as well as a professor in academia.
Hi, Mine.
Hello.
Thanks for having me here today.
And I'm excited to talk about RStudio Cloud today.
So I use RStudio Cloud both as part of my life at RStudio
and also as an educator at Duke University as well.
And my goal today is to talk to you a little bit
about both how I use RStudio Cloud for teaching
and also give you a little bit of tips and tricks.
So let's go ahead and get started.
All right.
Oh, apologies for that.
Let's try that one more time.
Okay.
All right.
I think we can put it back on screen now.
Great.
So if you are interested in getting a hold of these slides,
you can find them at rstd.io slash rscloud-demo.
I will show this link at the end as well.
And there will be a bunch of kind of demos throughout.
So the slides only give you a glimpse
of part of what I'm going to say.
But if you would like to get a hold of the PDF,
you can do so there.
So let's first talk a little bit
about what RStudio Cloud is.
RStudio Cloud looks just like this.
When you land on rstudio.cloud and you log in,
you can see that you have a place for your projects
and you can start with a new project.
And we'll start with an RStudio project for now.
And you'll see that in my browser,
I have something that looks just like RStudio
if I had it locally on my computer as well.
And I can give it a name.
So that outer shell is a little bit different
than what I tend to have locally on my computer
where I can name my projects.
But beyond that, I have my console.
I have my environment tab.
Everything is as I know it.
What's happening is that the compute is happening
on RStudio Cloud as opposed to happening on my computer.
Well, what that tells me is that if this lives on the web,
I should be able to easily share it with others as well.
So a lot of what we're going to talk about today
is not just how you create RStudio Cloud projects,
but also how you share it with others,
particularly in the context of teaching
how you share it with your students.
But before we get there, maybe let's answer the question,
why would I want RStudio in the cloud in the first place?
So instead of working locally, why might I want that?
Well, particularly in the context of teaching,
if you are going to be teaching R with RStudio,
but your students are going to be using RStudio locally,
they're going to have to do a few things
when they get to the first class.
They're going to have to install R.
They're going to have to install RStudio.
And they're going to have to install a bunch of packages
that you might use throughout the semester.
That's actually not that difficult necessarily,
but you do have to utter these words to them, right?
These things tend to work relatively easily
for a majority of us,
but it becomes a thing you have to walk them through
before you get to the exciting part of doing data analysis.
Then you also need to talk to them a little bit
about what's installing a package versus loading a package.
And if you, like me, teach with version control,
you also have to get your students
to install Git locally on their computers as well.
And trying to hit all five of these major bullet points
in the first 10 minutes of the class
is probably not going to happen.
Realistically, you'll end up having to set aside
a bunch of time for it and potentially do
quite a bit of debugging
for maybe a small number of your students,
but there will be some who will get stuck
on some of these stages.
Instead of starting off your teaching
with lots of friction points,
you might want to be living in this land
with much less friction,
where you go to rstudio.cloud in your browser,
you log in and you can start coding.
What I'm always trying to get my students to,
where I'm always trying to get my students
is a place where when they sit down
to work on their computer and they're like,
all right, I'm going to work on my stats
for my data science course,
it doesn't take them more work to get started
than launching a video on Netflix, for example.
And that's how easily you can get started
with something like this.
Now, we talked about why rstudio in the cloud.
So where they go to could be rstudio.cloud
or could be other options as well.
So how do we achieve an access to rstudio in the cloud?
One option is using the rstudio Workbench,
which I'll just talk about briefly here
and then move away from,
but there may be reasons why this may be what you prefer.
So if you have sysadmin experience yourself
or IT support, perhaps from your university,
and you also have some either hardware
or a local virtual machine or some cloud computing credit
where you could be running the compute.
And obviously you yourself have a bit of rstudio experience
to be teaching with it.
This might be an option for you.
So rstudio offers rstudio Workbench,
which you can run in your browser
once it's been set up for you.
And you can get the software for teaching purposes
for free from rstudio.
And I've put on the slide,
the link to our academic pricing page,
if you'd like to take a look to find out more
about that offering.
If you would like to set things up in this way,
there is a bit of setup.
And that's why I have the first bullet point
about either having sysadmin experience
or IT support available to you.
But if those are things that you are able to do,
and you are able to set things up in a way
that where your students can authenticate
and use the platform,
do, you may find this article we have
in the American Statistician called
Infrastructure and Tools for Teaching Computing
throughout the statistical curriculum helpful,
where we describe our setup that we have at Duke University,
where we use a version of the setup
for getting our students to do computing in their browser.
Another option is instead of having to,
needing to have all three of these,
if you just have RStudio experience yourself
as an instructor,
but maybe not the sysadmin experience
and not the kind of the machine
where you could be running this on,
RStudio Cloud might be the right option for you.
So the setup is a lot less cumbersome
and a lot less resource intensive.
So that's what we're going to be mostly talking about today.
Now that hopefully we've set the stage
for there may be a pedagogical need
for getting your students to start computing in the cloud
as opposed to locally,
and kind of giving you a lay of the land
of what are your options for doing this with RStudio.
Let's talk a little bit more about why RStudio Cloud.
Beyond the fact that it does not require
IT experience to set up,
it also has some really nice bells and whistles
that are designed particularly for teaching.
For example, there is the notion of a workspace
where you can organize your class as a workspace.
So either if you're teaching multiple classes
in the same semester,
or from semester to semester,
you're able to kind of have them organized
in a nicely contained way.
There is a notion of roles.
So things like instructor, teaching assistant or student
can be assigned to particular roles on RStudio Cloud.
You can turn your project.
So I just showed you earlier
how to fire up a project in RStudio Cloud.
You can turn that into an assignment
that your students can quickly get started with.
And as an instructor, something I really, really like
is that you can peek into student projects.
So that is really very similar to being able to,
you know, be say in a computer lab with your students.
And if they have a question
kind of peeking over their shoulder,
and being able to do this has been particularly helpful
when we've had to do a bunch of remote teaching.
The other thing is that you can set up a base project
that contains any R packages you might need,
or any other documentation
that you would like for your students to have
for every single one of their projects.
You can set that up for them
and modify it throughout the semester,
and ensure that each time a student starts a new project,
they're all starting with the same base project.
Certain system libraries work out of the box.
For example, Git will work out of the box.
And also you can render to PDF or Word,
and that works out of the box as well.
These are generally things for local use.
The user would have to set up themselves,
or if you are teaching in a situation
where your students are using their local setup,
they would have to install for themselves.
And usually the installation and setup of these
tends to require more skills
than just being able to do some computing with R.
All right, so now that we've kind of done an introduction
to RStudio Cloud, I'd like to do a few demos
where I can actually take you through RStudio Cloud
and talk a little bit,
and show you a little bit about
how life in RStudio Cloud works.
So let's start with this notion of a project.
So this is what an RStudio Cloud project
looks like.
And here I am in an RStudio session.
And if you do use RStudio locally as well,
this is basically the same idea as a local project.
And there is a nice UI, as I said,
up top as a banner,
where you can kind of keep track of
which project you're working on.
Another thing that you can do
is so when we're starting up a new project,
you can actually open up a Jupyter project as well.
So this is currently in beta, but it is available.
And when you fire this up,
you basically get an IPython notebook.
And you can see that in the same environment.
So I've just, I'm still in RStudio Cloud,
but I'm able to run a Jupyter notebook as well.
And you can see just like a regular Jupyter notebook,
I have a little bit of kind of text
and a little bit of code intermingled
and I can run my cells, so on and so forth.
Other things that you can do
is you can also start with a project from a Git repository.
So you can simply put the kind of the URL
of your Git repository here.
I'm cloning the praise package.
That is an R package that, you know,
gives you nice pleasantries as you run your code,
gives you some positive reinforcement.
And you can see that I'm able to clone that project
and kind of start working with that as well.
This does require that you kind of sync up
your GitHub account with your RStudio Cloud account,
which you can do so from your profile.
But once that's all set up,
you're able to interact with Git easily as well.
So teaching with RStudio Cloud
beyond just using it for yourself
really does not require any further kind of setup than this,
except the fact that you probably will want
to prepare some projects for your students,
and you might be thinking about various ways
that you can share it with them.
So there are really two ways that I think about teaching
when I'm kind of thinking about
what sort of sharing approach
I'm going to use for my students.
Often I ask myself the question,
is this a shorter engagement,
something like a workshop or a short course,
where I can organize content in a single RStudio project
or just a few projects,
and I have no need for keeping track of my learners.
So that's usually for me a setting
where maybe I won't be grading them,
or I'm not necessarily responsible
for keeping track of their work
over an extended period of time.
If that's the case,
you can simply create a project like we've shown before
and share that project simply by sharing its URL.
If you have a longer engagement,
so that is perhaps a semester long course
or a multi-day workshop where there's lots of content.
And instead of kind of putting all of that
into a single or just a few RStudio projects,
you can think about it as many, many projects
that need to happen throughout a semester.
So maybe many homework assignments,
a final project, some lab work, so on and so forth.
And you have a need or desire
to keep track of your learners,
either for grading purposes,
or because you want to assess
either for your kind of enjoyment
or to be able to give feedback to the students,
how much they're interacting with both the platform
and also the learning materials
that you've prepared for them.
In that case, I recommend creating a workspace
and then inviting your students to that workspace.
So I'm going to demo both of these approaches next.
So let's start with sharing an RStudio Cloud project.
So we're in the instructor view here.
You can see that I have prepared a single RStudio project.
And I have a few folders in there
where I've organized my teaching materials.
This happens to be a short course
I gave on introduction to Shiny.
So we have four modules in this short course,
and I've created those and put them in my files pane.
And what I'm going to do is
I can kind of show you the inside these folders.
We can see that I have kind of the R scripts
that I want to share with my learners.
And I also have packages installed as well.
So I am installing any packages
that I'm going to use in this short course for my students
so that when they come in, they can simply run the code
and they don't have to worry
about installing packages as well.
It's not that difficult to install packages,
but this ensures that everybody is using
the same version of the package.
I have prepared everything for them.
And what I can do next is make my project shareable.
It's private by default, but I can go to access
and say, anyone can view this project now
and just grab its URL.
Now, when I say anyone can view the project,
I should mention that even though anyone can now see this,
it's only if I share the URL with them.
It's kind of privacy by obscurity.
You can see that URL has some random numbers
at the end and just about anyone couldn't just guess
what that is, obviously.
So I'm going to have to kind of grab that URL
now that I've enabled sharing.
And then I share that with my learners.
So I maybe email it to them
or message it to them or something.
And all they need to do is put that in their browser
and they're gonna need to log in.
They might choose to log in with Google or GitHub
or something else or like an RStudio cloud account.
And you can see that they're in the same
kind of looking environment
and they don't need to install a package anymore.
They can simply load a package
because the package for them is already installed
and they have the same file structure as I have
and they're able to run the code.
I want to grab your attention or point your attention
to one more thing here,
just under student view on my slide,
it says temporary copy.
So when a student receives this link,
they're in a temporary copy of this project.
And what they can do is next to that,
there's a button that says save a permanent copy
and they can make it their own.
At that point, RStudio cloud is simply grabbing
a snapshot of that project
and making a copy for the student
that they can continue working on.
And when they come back,
they're able to continue working on their own copy
and any changes they make basically
does not propagate back to my project
and also does not get lost either.
So this idea of sharing an RStudio cloud project
on the plus side is super easy.
First of all, I created my project
and all I had to do was to flip a switch for shareability
and share the URL.
Other pluses associated with it
is that students land directly in a project upon login.
So, you know, we're telling them we're teaching RStudio
and we give them a URL and they're right there.
There's no additional steps they need to do.
I find that beyond teaching,
this sort of sharing a project
is actually great for just collaboration,
particularly if I have collaborators
with whom I want to share my code,
but maybe they're not, you know, Git or GitHub users.
So that's not the path we want to go
or to create some reproducible examples
that might be a bit more, you know,
a bit more extensive than like a little snippet
you might share with somebody on Slack or GitHub.
So oftentimes if I'm trying to debug,
for example, an extensive Shiny app,
even if I make it pretty minimal,
I find that there's a lot of code there
to just post into a message.
So often I'll create a single RStudio cloud project
and then it ends up having the packages
that I have installed ready to go as well
to share with somebody else to ask a question.
Now on the negative side,
that temporary copy thing with even with the handy
save a permanent copy button next to it
can sometimes get students because they need to remember
to make a permanent copy of the project,
which honestly, as an instructor to you
means you need to remind them to do so.
Otherwise their work can get lost.
Also as an instructor,
you can't keep track of which students
started their assignments
because once they make a copy, they own that.
And if they want you to take a look at their project,
you need to be granted permission back.
You don't have that by default,
even though you have originally shared it with them.
The permanent other things that could be a plus or a minus,
depending on your situation is that these permanent projects
once the student makes the permanent project,
they count towards their student's free account.
So if you're an instructor who is not wanting
to kind of use up your account's usage,
that might be a plus.
But if you're an instructor who is thinking,
I would like to make sure that I'm offering this
to my students for free forever,
this may not be the right setup for you.
Also students control permissions on their project.
This can also be a pro or a con.
It's nice for them to have this control,
but that might also mean that they are sharing it
very liberally.
So if you're teaching in a setting where,
things like maybe giving an assignment
that students should not be collaborating on in any way,
should not see each other's code,
this might make it easier for them to do something
that they're not supposed to do.
Obviously, disallowing this sort of
permissions from the students,
does not mean you're going to be insured
that no academic dishonesty occurs.
But generally my motto when I'm teaching is,
I try to not make it additionally easier for my students
to do something that I don't want them to do.
So if you're giving assignments and you're saying,
you can't see each other's code,
this may again, may not be the right approach for you.
So we've talked about creating a single project
and sharing that.
And I mentioned that this is a useful approach
for kind of short engagements,
but what about for longer engagements
where maybe you're teaching a semester long course
and you need things a little better organized.
So in that case, the approach that you might take
is inviting your students to an RStudio Cloud workspace.
So I'm again here on the instructor view,
and you can say that on the top bar,
it says your workspace.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to click
on the little menu next to it and create a new space.
So in this case, I'm creating a space
for a new course that I'm giving,
I'll call that Shiny Essentials.
And now that I have moved into this new workspace,
I can create projects in here.
So these projects are only going to be accessible
to folks that are in this workspace.
So I can similarly create modules
for my students to learn from,
and I can set things up in many ways.
So when I go to share this project,
you can see that it now says everyone in Shiny Essentials,
and it allows me to turn it into an assignment as well.
What this means is when the students land in this workspace,
they're going to see this first project,
and it says instead of assignment next to it,
it will say start for them.
So they can get started with a permanent copy of their own
that lives in this RStudio Cloud workspace.
So they don't have to remember
to make a copy for themselves.
Once students have started their assignments,
I as the instructor can track their projects as well.
So in this case,
I was teaching this Shiny Essentials course,
and over the four modules,
you can see that there are many kind of derived projects
from each of these.
So 187 students came to this project
and they made their own permanent copies
and they started working on them.
And I can actually go in,
I can click on that view derived projects link,
and I can go in and see my students' names
and even open up their RStudio Cloud projects.
So if somebody is having difficulty
to the point where we're unable to like help them
get unstuck by maybe discussion forum posts or something,
I can actually go in and directly help them
in their RStudio session.
Another thing is,
so how do we get students into this workspace?
Under the members tab within your workspace,
you can see the names of your members.
So I have grayed those out for privacy reasons,
but you can see that I can scroll through
and see who the members are of this workspace.
And I can invite more folks either via an invitation.
So I would need to enter their email address
and send it to them, or I can use a sharing link.
So I can create a sharing link,
set a particular default role for that sharing link
and simply share the link with them.
And at some point I can reset that link if I want,
if I want no further people to continue to join the workspace.
So these particular roles are admin,
moderator, contributor, and viewer.
I think about these as the admin is the instructor.
Admin is the instructor.
So that's me.
I can do whatever I want.
I can manage users.
I can view, edit, and manage all of the projects.
The moderator level to me in an instructional setting
is more like my TA.
They can view, edit, and manage all projects,
but they don't have the privileges to get more people in
or kick people out of the class.
A contributor are my students.
They can create, edit, and manage their own projects only.
They don't get to touch other people's projects.
And then the viewer role is something that I think that,
you know, that you may not even use at all,
but instances where I've used it
have been either auditors to the class or guests.
So these people can only view projects
that are shared with everyone and no other projects.
Sometimes I have colleagues who want to,
who want to perhaps take a peek
at what's happening in my class
to kind of take a look to see
how I've set up my RStudio Cloud workspace, for example,
but I perhaps don't want them to see my students' names
or their projects.
So that's the role I have mostly used that for.
We can also set permissions
and these come unchecked by default.
And I would recommend leaving them that way
unless you have good reason to do so.
One of them, for example,
is about whether contributors can see the members list.
Another one is whether they can,
contributors can make their projects visible to all members.
I usually leave that unchecked
because I don't want my students
to readily share their assignments with each other.
And then there's other settings
in terms of what the viewers can do
and who can change the computational resources.
And I'll talk a little bit about what I mean
by computational resources in a little bit.
Another perk of using this workspace setting
is perhaps my favorite one
is this notion of a base RStudio project.
So what that is is a project that you can set.
So it's an RStudio project that you can set to say,
this is the image I want every single project to start with.
So I can actually put, decide on the version of R
I want everyone to use,
the installed packages and their versions
that I want everyone to use,
and also any files that I want every single project
in my workspace to contain.
Usually for me, those are things like
a statement of code of conduct,
maybe some instructions for how to submit work.
They're not things that change
from assignment to assignment.
They're things that need to stay constant.
They're the sort of things you might tell your students,
go read in the syllabus.
So I ended up putting those there.
These base projects can be updated throughout the semester,
which means that say a newer version
of a package you use comes
and you want to be able to teach
with the newer functionality that's been implemented.
Mid semester, you can update the base project
so that going forward,
you're using a newer version of that package
and every project that's starting from that point onwards
is affected by this update.
But it's not retroactive and that's good
because you're not gonna break old work
students may have done.
I think this is also a really nice perk
because when you are using kind of maybe an RCDO
in the server type setup that may be shared
throughout the university or throughout your department
with maybe other instructors,
oftentimes IT professionals would be hesitant
to update this sort of base image
because changes that you make could affect others as well.
But by the definition of a workspace,
it's only your class
and your class is the only set of projects
who are going to be affected by this change.
So you really can do as you please.
So let's talk a little bit about the pros and cons
of this approach as well.
We talked about various permission levels as a pro
and this notion of a base project.
The notion of assignments which remove the need
to remind students to make copy of their projects
before starting their work
and the ability to peek into student projects
and ability to view stats on student engagement.
So you can take a look at the dashboard
to see how much kind of compute
your students may have been using.
And I'll mention in a second that we have a package
that you can use to speak to the RStudio Cloud API
to get further information
about which of your students have been active.
I know a few folks are using that sort of data
for pedagogical research, for example,
to quantify engagement of students with the work.
In the negative side,
perhaps if I could pick on something
and I think really here the negatives are very small
is that when students land in a workspace
when they get invited,
they just land in that main page,
not in an RStudio project.
So you're gonna wanna spend a minute or two
orienting your students about what they need to do next.
But that's the sort of thing you really need to say once
and then it's quite clear to them what they need to do
the next time they get there.
When we talk about things that could be pros or cons,
the student work counts towards the instructor
or the institution workspace hours.
That means that if you,
if the kind of the free plan is not sufficient
for the amount of work your students are doing,
which very well might be the case
if this is like a semester long course,
you need to have set up things where the student,
so their hours will count towards the limits
that you have set up for your workspace.
Also another one that could be a pro or a con
is that instructor controls permission of students projects.
So if you are running a course
where you want things to be readily shareable,
you would perhaps check that box,
the permission box to allow your students
to make their projects shareable,
but by default, it would not be the case.
So now that we've talked a little bit
about how to get students into your RStudio cloud space
and how to share your materials with them,
I'll kind of try to wrap things up,
but with some tips before we perhaps move
into a bit of a Q and A.
So the first tip that I would mention
is that changes to an assignment that you make,
that after a student has started,
won't propagate to their copy.
So this is not like Google Docs in a way,
is I think the best way to describe it.
When your student makes a copy of a project
you have set up for them
in either of the sharing approaches,
they're really taking a snapshot at that time.
So if you need to change your assignment,
and I'm sure we've all been there,
you assign a homework assignment,
then you realize something is wrong.
You're gonna need to get that information
to them in another way,
or have them start with a new project,
or have your projects be linked to a Git repository as well.
And you can change that Git repository
and ask your students to pull the changes in.
Packages in the base project are installed, but not loaded.
So when you're writing your instructions,
you want to remind yourself,
remind your students to do library, whatever package name,
because they won't be able to use it immediately
in the console.
This information is always on the RStudio Cloud guide
and the What's New page.
RStudio Cloud is still evolving.
It is not changing in terms of,
it's not changing in terms of like,
in a way where it's going to be a completely different UI
the next day your students land in it,
but there are new features being added.
And so it's nice to keep up with those.
And if you encounter any sort of slowness or glitches,
say your students are reporting, we can't log on,
there's a current system status link on the side
that's super handy.
It allows you to check to see if there are real outage,
and if not, you can go ahead and report it.
Other tips is I strongly recommend
creating an additional account.
So I have this like additional account
with another personal email address I had,
and I invite that persona as a student,
so as a contributor into my workspace,
so that I can log in and see things the students see them.
That can be helpful when you are kind of taking screenshots
for your students as well,
if that's the sort of thing you like to put
in your instructions.
You can set computational resources allotted to projects.
By default, you get a decent amount,
but if you're working with either bigger data sets,
or doing something that's more computationally intensive,
then the default settings would be sufficient for.
You may wanna up those computational resources
that are available to each project.
And the one way to figure out if this is going to be needed
is to actually test your assignment.
So if you write answer keys, for example,
you may try running them in RStudio Cloud
to make sure things hold up.
The one place where this can be difficult to foresee
ahead of time can be if you have open-ended projects
for your students,
because then maybe you have no control
over exactly what they're gonna work on,
how big a data set they're gonna bring.
So it's nice to have a feedback loop
and explain to your students a little bit
that if things are lagging, or slow,
or just like they're trying to run some code,
or things are hanging,
it very well might be that the resources allotted
aren't sufficient, and they can bring that up to you,
and you can set that for them
after they've started the project as well.
So those are things you can change at any point
in a project's life.
I would, the peeking at your students' functionality
is super nice, but from a pedagogical perspective,
I would recommend that you use that feature sparingly.
It's important for us to teach our students
how to ask good questions without us saying,
hey, just move away from the keyboard, I'll do it for you.
Because that's a little bit of that.
Move away from the computer, let me take over and do it.
And sometimes that's exactly what a student needs.
But it's useful for them to try
to articulate the question first,
and not go there right away.
I also use that assignment feature
for things that are not assignments as well.
So even if I don't necessarily expect the students
to complete and turn in something,
you might still use that feature,
because it's just a handy feature to say,
let me get started with where you left things off.
And so one of the things I do is if I'm doing
any sort of live coding in class,
I'll create a skeleton of what I'm gonna get through,
maybe with some prompts throughout an R Markdown file,
and leave that as an RStudio Cloud project
for students to get started with as I start coding as well.
There are various kind of plans
that you can choose for RStudio Cloud.
And there's a free plan as well.
And for kind of either hobby usage
or kind of short amounts of teaching,
what's allowed there,
allotted there might very well be sufficient.
But I've found that if I'm teaching a course
with many students over a 15 week semester,
I probably need either the instructor
or the organization plan.
And if there are questions about the,
if there are questions about these various plans,
I will be able to answer them at the end as well.
I'll also mention the RS Cloud package.
It's not currently on CRAN, but it is available on GitHub.
And our goal is to get that on CRAN,
perhaps sometimes in 2022.
But it has a nice set of functions where, as you can see,
you can query the API to get a list of your users,
to get some information on their statistics,
like are they still engaging or not?
You can use it to send invitations.
So it's almost like you get to upload a roster
and send invitations to all of your students.
So if you are using RStudio Cloud heavily,
and particularly with large groups of members and students,
the package might very well be helpful for you,
especially if you're like me
and you don't like clicking around things too much,
and you'd rather script things up.
If you do start working with RS Cloud,
you're going to need an API key,
which you can get in the RStudio Cloud UI.
So just from your profile,
you can go ahead and request an API key.
And if there's features that you would like to see
in this package, please open an issue.
I'm actively working on it,
and we'd be happy to try to implement them
or at least let you know if that's not feasible
due to the setup of the API.
And if you would like to learn more about RStudio Cloud,
Jesse Mostapak has put together
this really nice playlist of kind of short videos
on YouTube that are about individual things
you might want to do on RStudio Cloud.
So I recommend taking a look at that as well.
I think there may be stuff you're familiar with,
but sometimes it's nice to see
how somebody else approaches it.
And there very well might be things
that you didn't know existed there as well.
All right, I think that's it for me.
Once again, the slides for this can be found
at rstd.io slash rsclouddemo.
And I would be happy to take any questions.
Thanks for listening.
Hey, Minae, thank you so much.
That was super interesting.
Hopefully our guests walked away learning something new.
In terms of Q&A, I think we have a few lined up.
For anyone that might've joined a little late,
if you do have any questions,
feel free to enter those on the YouTube live chat
and we'll be sure to surface them.
I'm gonna start with a question
that I actually get pretty often.
Let me get this up on the screen here.
So I get asked a lot about base projects.
Could you talk a little bit more
about how you handled those scenarios
before the base project concept existed?
Yeah, so if I don't have access
to this notion of a base project,
what that means is that every time I set up an assignment,
I have to install the packages
that are needed for that assignment.
For me, that often means I need to install Tidyverse,
for example.
So homework one, install Tidyverse.
Homework two, install Tidyverse.
And any other projects as well.
Another thing is submission instructions
is also another thing that comes up a lot,
or any sort of like,
these are the things you're allowed to do
for this assignment.
These are the things you're not allowed to do.
So I would have this like text file
that's like a plain text file
that has this information
that I would upload to every single assignment.
The way I tend to teach in a workspace,
my students are rarely creating a project
just out of the blue in there.
They're often starting off of an assignment
that I have prepared for them.
So the base projects have mostly made my life easier
as I create new assignments.
But every once in a while,
there may be a situation where your student
just wants to create a project in there
and work on something related to the class,
but maybe not necessarily attached to any assignment.
And then they get the benefit of using the same R version
and the version of packages
that you have pre-installed for them as well.
The other thing that I really like about the base projects
is that I can update them throughout the semester
and they don't break projects that happened in the past.
So student work doesn't get affected,
but I get to benefit from say a new update
that may have come up in a package.
Interesting.
I see Brad just sent over a question
that I think you somewhat touched on,
but just to make sure that they heard the answer.
Is there a way to distribute data files to students
without setting up a project?
So if you're not setting up a project,
so if you're setting up a project,
upload it there and then it's distributed.
If you're not setting up a project,
there isn't necessarily a RStudio Cloud specific way
of getting it to them.
But ways that you might use is if you have access
to a place where you can upload your data sets
and that very well might just be a GitHub repository,
that would be a free place to host them.
For example, you can host them there
and then a lot of the data reading functions
will take a URL as an input as well.
So even if the data set doesn't exist,
I don't wanna use the word locally,
I suppose everything is in the cloud,
but in that project for those students,
they can read directly from a URL as well.
Also, if the goal is to teach students
how to get data into something,
what you might do is,
so this is something I've done as well,
where sometimes I don't wanna just put the data files
for them into their files pane,
I want them to learn how to do that.
So what I'll do in my instructions
is I'll have instructions for downloading a data set
onto their computer so that we can teach them
how to upload a data set into the RStudio Cloud project.
And the reason why I do that
with some of my earlier assignments
is that for their final project,
they have to find a data set and bring it in.
So I wanna make sure that they have had some practice
with bringing in their own data set
before we get to that point.
That makes a ton of sense.
Looks like the next question,
lots of instructors use a learning management system.
So curious, how have you handled grading?
So the way I have been teaching
over the last five or six years
is that I actually teach version control
alongside data science.
And every single assignment
is not only an RStudio Cloud project,
but it's also a GitHub repository.
And so we actually do our submission in a way
or grading by pushing to GitHub ultimately.
There is currently not a grading feature in RStudio Cloud.
So there's not a way where like maybe assigned
to each project, you know,
not a place where you can actually store a grade with it.
But I believe that's like in the pipeline
of at least feature requests
that has come from other instructors as well.
So that very well might be something that's included later.
Even in instances where we've had grading,
but no like version control
or GitHub associated with my teaching,
I would have either myself or my TAs
go into the particular projects.
And the nice thing is if you have an assignment
that you have set up,
the title of that assignment is always the same.
I guess your students could mess you up and change them,
but they generally don't.
So what you end up seeing is let's say your homework one,
and then you can see, as I saw on my slides,
like view derived projects,
and you can go through, go into your students' projects,
grade their work.
And oftentimes what I'll have is like a CSV file
I keep locally where I enter the final grades.
You can create new files in their projects as well
to leave them feedback if you would like to as well.
Thank you.
I see Ryan just sent across a question.
Would you recommend a particular PKI key management package
that works well with RStudio Cloud?
Say like I'm pulling data from Qualtrics.
I have to ask what PKI is
because I'm not sure what it stands for.
Maybe I could find out for myself.
Or maybe it'll come into the chat.
Ryan, if you can clarify what PKI is,
I would be happy to try to answer that question.
Public key infrastructure, I think maybe is what it is.
Good question.
So this would be something where you basically
want to store some sort of public key in your project.
I'm gonna say the closest experience I have to this
is maybe storing my personal access token for GitHub,
which you can do.
So however you're storing these in an R session,
if you're working locally,
you should be able to do so on RStudio Cloud as well.
One thing I'll mention is any sort of user level information
as such does not get shared between your projects
in your RStudio Cloud profile.
So you would have to set those things
on a per project basis, which can be a hassle,
or it might be actually a positive
if you're actually trying to test access levels
with various keys.
But, and I don't have a recommendation
for a specific package,
but whatever has worked for you locally
should work on RStudio Cloud as well for that.
Thanks, Mina.
I see Ryan did confirm that that meant public keys.
Next question looks like from Vancouver, British Columbia.
Is there a way to integrate with NB Greater?
Not to my knowledge as of now,
but that being said, I am not a heavy NB Greater user.
So don't quote me on that.
So the one thing that,
I know that NB Greater works very nicely
with Jupyter Notebooks.
So I don't think RStudio Cloud has like a specific thing
for NB Greater as of today.
That being said, however, you tend to set up NB Greater
for grading from like Jupyter Notebooks
should work here as well.
I don't know how you would handle things
where you hide the test from your students,
but as long as all of that stuff
can live in the same session,
it could be using the same compute
and could still be giving the automated feedback.
Interesting.
While we're on the topic,
I'm curious about single sign-on.
Here's the question.
My school requires SSO.
Can RStudio Cloud integrate
with my school's existing authentication setup?
I think the answer is yes.
The answer is yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So you might know more about this
because you've worked with various other schools, Pete.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm happy to speak to that.
So depending on your school's existing SSO setup,
we very likely can integrate with it.
I know some of the popular ones
are Shibboleth and SAML.
And if you're using something else,
please feel free to reach out.
I know some institutions utilize Google Auth,
which is another one that should not be an issue.
And keeping up with the current topics,
you mentioned Jupyter.
So is it true you could access Jupyter Notebooks
with RStudio Cloud?
Yes, I believe this is still in beta,
but you can request that access, right?
If you have a paid plan,
I think maybe you can request that.
So it is true, and it is trickling down the pipeline
to be like, I think, just as much as RStudio Project,
the first-class citizen there.
But it is certainly working, yeah.
Great, yeah.
And just for folks out there that are interested,
it is currently in beta.
We will be transitioning to general availability
by end of this quarter.
And as Mine said, if you're on a paid tier,
you can get access to the beta.
And even if you're not on a paid tier,
if you have a use case you're super interested in,
you know, trying out with that,
just feel free to shoot us an email.
It's pete at rstudio.com,
and we can see if we can set you up regardless.
Looks like we have a few more questions trickling in.
Here we go.
A while ago, I noticed hitches
taking hours to install all packages
when opening my RStudio Cloud project in Ubuntu
that I created in Windows.
So I think that,
I don't know that that's necessarily like a problem of,
you know, being created in one operating system
and then opening in another.
I would imagine that that is not the cause of that.
That is not the cause of that.
But it is true that the package install
was taking a bit longer.
I don't know if this is currently
in the deployed version of it,
but I know that some changes have happened
very recently in RStudio Cloud
where all of that stuff should be working
a little bit faster right now.
And one thing I'll say is that there's this tool,
our product, RStudio Package Manager,
that has made like package installation
and keeping track of versions
for kind of whatever your setup might be a lot easier
for various folks.
And whatever advances are happening in that
are kind of like the goal is to absorb them
into RStudio Cloud as much as possible.
So you should be seeing a speed up there.
Another thing I will mention though,
this may be only relevant if you are kind of
using this in the teaching context perhaps,
but even if things take a while,
if you use this notion of a base project,
things take a while only once,
which is I think another nice thing
that each person starting up a project
doesn't have to wait through the installation of those.
Only the first time you install them into the base,
you may wait through it
and then the rest should work more quickly.
Thank you.
Let's see, is real-time collaborative coding
coming to RStudio Cloud?
I think that is coming.
That is certainly, well,
it is my personally most highly requested feature.
Whenever I'm asked, what would you like to see there?
That's literally the first thing I say.
And of course it's coming from others as well.
And yes, that is certainly something the team is working on.
I'm really excited to see what it might look like.
I hope we'll be able to catch a glimpse of that
sometime in this year.
Yeah, so I can tell you from my perspective
that our team is working on that.
And I believe the plan, similar to the Jupyter Notebooks,
is to have that available by the end of the quarter,
but we'll certainly keep folks up to date
as that progresses.
Let's see.
Here we go from Robert.
I would like to see a demo
of the RS Cloud package for management.
Will that be offered anytime soon?
This would be very useful for us to leverage here.
So like a demo on using the RS Cloud package
in terms of what you can do with that?
I think that's the question, right?
I believe that's the question.
And Mine, correct me if I'm wrong,
but I believe we do have at least a brief video recording
of how you can use that.
We could certainly surface that.
And if there's something additional, Robert,
that you might be looking for,
please feel free to follow up with us.
Again, my email is Pete, as in Peter, at rstudio.com,
and we can certainly set up something for you.
Yeah, so one of the videos
where I showed on that playlist that Jesse had made
is about RS Cloud.
And I think that if it seems like a useful thing to do,
like my goal is to try to get that package
on CRAN sometime this year.
It's currently functional,
but there are a few feature requests in there
that we haven't done.
Maybe when we do that, we can try to do one of these
where we do a more extensive kind of demo of it as well.
Perfect.
Brad, I did see your question
regarding how are students counted.
It really depends on your membership type.
So happy to take that offline.
I just threw my email in there
if you wanna follow up with me,
and we can clarify that for your particular use case.
Let's see, we have about five more minutes.
Here is a good one.
Do instructors have to cover all students' costs?
I think the answer is no.
It really depends on how you want to approach this.
So I will tell you about my experience
of the various things that we've done,
like kind of on the instructor side,
and then Pete might have more to add on that as well.
I think that one of the things you may wanna consider is,
am I the only instructor at my institution
who is doing this?
Or are there other instructors as well,
say various courses in a given department?
Because this notion of instead of an instructor account,
an organization account might actually be
the right fit for you,
especially if you have students
who are taking like multiple classes
for which they might be using RStudio Cloud for.
That was the setup that we had last year
when I was at the University of Edinburgh.
And I believe coming down the pipeline,
if it's not live now,
is a notion where students could pay for access
even though they're in your workspace, right Pete?
That's correct.
Historically, the instructor,
again, depending on membership type,
is either gonna cover the cost,
the school's gonna cover the cost,
or if the students do directly cover the cost.
Today, there might not actually be an integration
between the student's account and the instructor's account,
which as you can imagine,
can be a little limiting when it comes to nice features
like being able to peek in
and see how your students are doing.
So as Mine just alluded to,
we are working on a new plan where if you'd like,
students could actually pay for their actual usage.
So there's gonna be more options
for how to spin up RStudio Cloud
for your particular use case at your institution.
We're hoping to provide that new option
in the next week or two if things stay on track.
Let's see, so a couple more minutes here.
Do have a few more questions trickling in.
To try RStudio Cloud,
is the free tier robust or should I trial a paid tier?
I think that the free tier is,
there is no, I mean, in terms of things
that I would consider robustness,
there should be no reason why you can't try things out
with the free tier.
I think you end up running into limitations
of the free tier really when you are trying
to offer a particular type of experience
to either a large group of people
or over an extended period of time.
So I know from an instructional perspective,
lots of folks who run short courses or workshops
who just use the free tier for that.
Yeah, in my experience, the free tier
is not really too limiting
in terms of features or capabilities.
It's more so the amount of time you have access to it
in a given month and the amount of collaborators,
users that you can share projects with.
Let's see.
So depending on course type,
does it make sense to use cloud
for the entirety of the course
or to have students transition
to local machines at some point?
So that's a really good question
and a question that often comes up.
I'm often like whenever I make a pitch
for let's teach on the cloud,
the first thing is,
but don't we need to learn to install and potentially yes.
So first of all, I'll couch this with,
well, it really depends
on the learning goals of your course, right?
If part of the learning goals of your course
is software installation,
then yes, it does make sense to transition.
I'll give you my perspective of someone
who generally uses, teaches introductory courses.
I like starting things on the cloud.
And one of the things that I try to make sure
that the students understand
is that the cloud is not just this esoteric thing.
It actually is somebody else's machine.
So we wanna make sure that
before students leave your course,
they understand what it means
for things to live on the cloud,
which means if they then get involved
with say a research project
that might have private data associated with it,
they shouldn't just upload it to RStudio Cloud
without making sure that that's okay.
So I think it's important
to explain to students what that is.
If you would like to teach installation as part of it,
because you think that would be a useful thing
for students to learn,
maybe to continue to engage with RStudio down the line,
even if they're not taking a course
that uses any of this cloud access,
then absolutely, I think it's super helpful
to point them to resources
or take a bit of class time to do it.
And the nice thing about doing it later
is that they're not both new to R and installation issues.
So they are going to be able to distinguish
between what is an R error
versus what might be an error
that might be happening due to my setup.
So I think that doing that later on in the course
can have some of those benefits.
And the last thing I'll say on this is,
when people then go on to do things past university life,
chances are they're gonna continue to do it on the cloud.
I mean, I think very few industry jobs
allow you to just like bring your own laptop
and compute on it.
And also a lot of academic computing
happens on research computing clusters as well.
So this notion of doing things on the cloud
happens to ease onboarding,
but it's not just some baby steps thing
that's not a realistic situation, I think.
Interesting.
So we're coming down to the last minute here.
So just one final question
that I think should be pretty straightforward.
Does Workbench have the same virtual classroom capability
which cloud provides?
I'm gonna say yes and no.
Absolutely yes, in the sense that you can have
like packages pre-installed for your students
and you can put some files in there, right?
And then they can just have them as well.
You can like associate it with a file system
and they can authenticate and work there.
The no part is really on the UI, I think.
So you don't have this notion of projects
the same way RStudio Cloud projects
we could see on the user interface of the learning page.
There's not a notion of an assignment either.
So there are some of these kind of the nice bells and whistles
or various roles.
These are not things that you are going to have
by default with Workbench,
but does it allow compute on the cloud
with the RStudio IDE interface?
Absolutely.
Awesome.
Well, Mine, it looks like we're at time.
Really appreciate this.
And again, I hope all folks that joined
and were able to tune in and ask questions
walked away learning something new.
If anyone was only able to come on
for the last couple of minutes,
we did record this so it'll be fully available shortly.
And again, this is our last event in this live cloud series.
We are hoping to do another live cloud series
in a few months.
And with that, I will wish everyone a good day.